Video4 - Scripting area & Palette

This video will focus on the scripting area, in the middle, and the palette on the left side. The scripting area and the palette are the main areas on which you will spend a majority of your time when you’re coding. The scripting area in combination with the blocks provided in the palette allow you to create scripts. The SNAP! palette can be compared to an artist’s palette which contains the colors that the artist will use when creating a painting. Here the palette essentially contains a list of categories which in turn contain a variety of blocks that can be used to create a script. You notice that there are different types of blocks to chose from in each category. 

The motion category includes an assortment of blocks that help move or point your sprite. The looks category allows you to alter the costume--the skin of the sprite or display a line of text to the screen. It essentially allows you to alter the sprite’s looks as well as the information displayed on the stage. The sound category allows the user to play a sound, create a note, or change the tempo at which a sound is played at.

The pen category allows you to alter the sprite’s functionality so that it can draw on the stage with color and different line sizes. The control category allows you to alter how a program works. It gives you a number of blocks that control how a function operates--promoting the idea of control flow which you will discover soon in the course. The sensing category has a conglomeration of blocks that help incorporating actions done by peripherals such as your keyboard and mouse. It also allows you to ask your user a question and save that answer.

The operators category provides you with blocks that help you do some basic number functions such as addition, comparisons such as seeing which of two numbers is greater, and predicate blocks that return a true or false value. The variables category provides you with blocks that help you create and alter a list or variable. You will soon learn about variables and lists and how to modify them using the blocks in this variable category.

In regards to the scripting area, this is where you will be placing your blocks. A user can drag and drop a block from the palette to the scripting area and “snap” that block onto a piece of  existing code. In this area towards the top, there are three tabs -- scripts, costumes, and sounds. The scripts-tab holds all of the blocks of code that you drag and drop into it. Adjacent to the scripts tab, the costumes tab when clicked displays all of costumes that you are using on the current sprite. The costumes are dependent on the sprite that you currently work with, choosing a different sprite, would refresh the tab with the costumes related to the selected sprite. The sounds tab works similarly to the costumes tab in that it stores the sounds that you can add to the sprite having exactly the same properties as the costumes tab.

This video concludes our tutorials regarding a short introduction to the SNAP! Environment. We hope that you enjoyed our videos, and that now you will be ready to start coding and learn programming using SNAP!